This is my attempt at the Cloud Resume Challenge

You can view it here: danielshafik.com

But first, what is the Cloud Resume Challenge? The Cloud Resume Challenge is a project I created to host a website showcasing my resume through the use of AWS CloudFront, Route53, Lambda functions, API Gateway, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and a little bit of Python.

For the design and format of the content in my website, I used mainly a combination of HTML and CSS, with a little bit of JavaScript for the animation portion of “Daniel Shafik” at the front page.

Now onto the fun stuff. The entire site is hosted with AWS using CloudFront for content distribution, Route53 for DNS, and S3 for storage. First, I purchased the rights to the domain “danielshafik.com” from PorkBun. Next, after completing my JavaScript, HTML, and CSS, I stored these files in an S3 bucket. Then, I created a CloudFront distribution and pointed it to my S3 bucket. Now, I had to point my CloudFront site to my custom domain. In Route53, I created multiple alias records to point to danielshafik.com and www.danielshafik.com, in order to account accessibility in browsers that automatically add www such as Safari. For the visitor counter function on my home page, I used a combination of DynamoDB, Lambda functions, API gateway and JavaScript. I created a DynamoDB table to store the current and updated counts, used a Lambda function to store the Python code that updates the visitor count to the DynamoDB table, an API gateway to act as the trigger to the Lambda function, and finally I called the function using the API gateway URL using JavaScript in my scripts.js file. Lastly, to automate updates made to my HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files I created a GitHub workflow action and added my S3 bucket and AWS access key under secrets in my repository. Now, when I commit changes within VSCode to my local Git repository I setup, it directly updates my S3 bucket, which then gets pushed to CloudFront and my domain.

Overall, this was a very fun project and a great introduction to the cloud. I enjoyed building something from the ground up, and was able to grasp a much better understanding of how projects in the cloud can be structured, as well as how a plethora of AWS resources actually work.  In addition, I learned about the importance of right sizing, and learning how to pick the most efficient resources at the most efficient costs.  Now, I will continue studying for my AWS Cloud Practitioner Certificate to continue to further my knowledge in AWS. Thats all, thank you for reading, and don’t forget to check out my website!
